.\" Linux man page by B. James Phillippe, 1997 <bryan@Terran.ORG>
.\"
.\" This page was written to contribute to the Linux kernel autofs
.\" implementation by H. Peter Anvin (1997).  It is loosly based on
.\" the documentation for mount(8) and amd(8) Linux manpages.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation.
.\"
.\" $Id: automount.8,v 1.8 2004/11/20 13:54:39 raven Exp $
.\"
.TH AUTOMOUNT 8 "14 Jan 2000"
.SH NAME
automount \- configure mount points for autofs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBautomount\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fImount-point\fP \fImap-type\fP[,\fIformat\fP] \fImap\fP [\fImap-options\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBautomount\fP program is used to configure a mount point for
autofs, the inlined Linux automounter.  \fBautomount\fP works by
taking a base \fImount-point\fP and \fImap\fP file, and using these 
(combined with other \fIoptions\fP) to automatically mount filesystems 
within the base \fImount-point\fP when they are accessed in any way.
The filesystems are then autounmounted after a period of inactivity.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-p, \-\-pid-file"
Write the pid of the daemon to the specified file.
.TP
.I "\-t, \-\-timeout"
Set the minimum timeout, in seconds, until directories are unmounted.
The default is 5 minutes.  Setting the timeout to zero disables
unmounts completely.
.TP
.I "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Enables printing of general status and progress messages.
.TP
.I "\-d, \-\-debug"
Enables printing of general status and progress messages as well as
debuging messages.
.TP
.I "\-g, \-\-ghost"
Request that directories in the automount be shown but not mounted
until accesssed. The wildcard map is not ghosted.
.TP
.I "\-V, \-\-version"
Display the version number, then exit.
.TP
.I "\-D, \-\-dumpmap"
Dumps the maps read and exits.
.TP
.I "\-r, \-\-random\-multimount\-selection"
Randomly selects a multimount mount point instead of performance
testing each one and then mounting the fastest.
.TP
.I "\-u, \-\-use\-old\-ldap\-lookup"
By default automount will use new code for finding the correct ldap
schema. It starts with rfc2307bis, then does the netscape one, then
the original rfc2307 schema. It only checks once for each mount point
and remembers the schema for the rest of the automount invocation.
If you set this flag it will do it the old way which involves looking
for the schema every time a mount is requested.
.TP
.I "\-I, \-\-ignore\-stupid\-paths"
The automount will return 'not found' for any key which contains '*' or
starts with a dot. Ignoring '*' stops undefined results being returned when
you use ldap. Ignoring the leading '.' is
useful for macs and Windows when they look for metadata directories
which typically do not exist in the root of an automount tree to help
increase browse speed at the top of large trees of mount points.
It will also ignore a path containing autmount(pid. This is to stop
lookups when samba asks for these paths which do not exist of course.
.TP
.I "\-R, \-\-max\-nfs\-mount\-retries <n>"
If set automount will retry 
.B "n"
times waiting between 1 and the argument to nfs-mount-retry-pause seconds
(+1) between mounts 
if one of the following errors is seen:
.RS
.P
.I "RPC: Remote system error - Connection refused" 
- usually caused by heavy fileserver load
.P
.I "RPC: Timed out"
- usually caused by heavy fileserver load 
.P
.I "RPC: Remote system error - Connection timed out"
 - usually caused by heavy fileserver load
.P
.I "Input/output error"
- sometimes caused by  too many mounts starting at
once on a client  - seen on centos 5.4 with kernel  2.6.18
.P
.I "can't read superblock"
-  too many mounts starting at once on a client - seen 2.6.25.18 and others
.RE
.TP
.I "\-R, \-\-nfs\-mount\-retry\-pause <secs>"
The amount of time to pause between retries. In fact it sets the
upperbound on the number of seconds before retrying (1s is added to
this argument). So it will pause a random number of seconds between 1
and nfs-mount-retry-pause+1 between retries.

.SH ARGUMENTS
\fBautomount\fP takes at least three arguments.  Mandatory arguments 
include \fImount-point\fP, \fImap-type\fP, and \fImap\fP.  Both mandatory
and optional arguments are described below.
.TP
\fBmount-point\fP
Base location for autofs-mounted filesystems to be attached.  This is a
directory name that will be created (as with \fBmkdir \-p\fP) and later
when \fBautomount\fP terminates will be removed (as with \fBrmdir \-p\fP).
.TP
\fBmap-type\fP
Type of map used for this invocation of \fBautomount\fP.  The following are
valid map types:
.RS
.TP
.B file
The map is a regular text file.
.TP
.B program
The map is an executable program, which is passed a key on the command
line and returns an entry on stdout if successful.
.TP
.B yp
The map is a NIS (YP) database.
.TP
.B nisplus
The map is a NIS+ database.
.TP
.B hesiod
The map is a hesiod database whose
.B filsys
entries are used for maps.
.TP
.B ldap
map names are of the form \fB[//servername/]basedn\fP, where the optional
\fBservername\fP is the name of the LDAP server to query, and \fBbasedn\fP is
the DN to do a subtree search under. Two LDAP schema are supported. The
automountMap and the nisMap (RFC 2307) object classes.
.P
Entries in the automountMap schema are \fBautomount\fP objects in
the specified subtree, where the \fBcn\fP attribute is the key (the wildcard
key is "/"), and the \fBautomountInformation\fP attribute contains the
information used by the automounter.  Documentation on the schema
used by this module is available online at
\fIhttp://docs.sun.com/source/806-4251-10/mapping.htm\fP.
.P
RFC 2307 schema entries are \fBnisObject\fP objects and use the \fBcn\fP
attribute as the key and the \fBnisMapEntry\fP contains information used
by the automounter. 
.RE
.TP
\fBformat\fP
Format of the map data; currently the only formats
recognized are \fBsun\fP, which is a subset of the Sun automounter map
format, and \fBhesiod\fP, for hesiod filesys entries.  If the format is
left unspecified, it defaults to \fBsun\fP for all map types except
\fBhesiod\fP.
.TP
\fBmap\fP
Location of mapfile to use.  This is an absolute UNIX pathname in the case
for maps of types \fBfile\fP or \fBprogram\fP, and the name of a database
in the case for maps of type \fByp\fP, \fBnisplus\fP, or \fBhesiod\fP.
.TP
\fBoptions\fP
Any remaining command line arguments without leading dashes (\-) are
taken as options (\fI\-o\fP) to \fBmount\fP.  Arguments with leading
dashes are considered options for the maps.
.sp
The \fBsun\fP format supports the following options:
.RS
.TP
.I "\-Dvariable=value"
Replace \fIvariable\fP with \fIvalue\fP in map substitutions.
.TP
.I "\-strict"
Treat errors when mounting file systems as fatal. This is important when
multiple file systems should be mounted (`multimounts'). If this option
is given, no file system is mounted at all if at least one file system
can't be mounted.
.RE
.SH NOTES
If the \fBautomount\fP daemon catches signal USR1, it will unmount all
currently unused autofs-mounted filesystems and continue running
(forced expire).  If it catches signals TERM or USR2 it will unmount
all unused autofs-mounted filesystems and exit if all filesystems were
unmounted.  Busy filesystems will not be unmounted.
The daemon also responds to a HUP signal which triggers an update of
maps for which ghosting is implemented (currently FILE and NIS maps).
.P
If the autofs directory itself is busy when the daemon is signalled
with an exit signal then the daemon will exit without unmounting the
autofs filesystem.  The filesystem is left in a catatonic
(non-functional) state, and can be unmounted when it becomes unused.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR autofs (5),
.BR mount (8).
.SH BUGS
A whole slew of missing desirable features (see \fBTODO\fP file).

The documentation leaves a lot to be desired.

Please report other bugs along with a detailed description to
<autofs@linux.kernel.org>. For instructions on how to join the list
and for archives visit http://linux.kernel.org/mailman/listinfo/autofs
.SH AUTHOR
H. Peter Anvin <hpa@transmeta.com>
