.\" t
.\" $Id: auto.master.5,v 1.2 2003/09/29 08:22:35 raven Exp $
.TH AUTO.MASTER 5 "9 Sep 1997"
.SH NAME
/etc/auto.master \- Master Map for automounter
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B auto.master
map is consulted when the
.BR autofs (8)
script is invoked to set up the necessary mount points for the automounter.
Each line in this file describes a mount point and points to another file
describing the file systems to be mounted under this mountpoint. The access
to those maps is governed by a key.
.P
For indirect automount maps access to an automounted file system is customarily
done using the path scheme:
.P
.RI / mountpoint / key / path / file ,
.P
where the
.I mountpoint
will be listed in the
.B auto.master
configuration file. The
.I key
is matched in the map file pointed to by the
master map (See
.BR autofs (5)).
The path and the file are referring to the file on the file system mounted.
For direct automount maps access is via the full path to the filesystem
as given in the associated map. The mountpoint for the direct map is always
specified as /- in the auto.master map.
.SH "FORMAT"
The file has three fields separated by an arbitrary number of blanks or
tabs. Lines beginning with # are comments. The first field is the mount
point. Second field is the map file to be consulted for this mount-point.
This field is of the form 
.IR maptype:mapname ,
where
.I maptype
is one of the supported map types (file, program, yp, nisplus, hesiod, userdir, ldap), and
.I mapname
is the name of the map. The third field is optional and can contain options to+ be applied to all entries in the map. Options are cumulative, which is a
difference from the behavior of the SunOS automounter.

The format of the map file and the options are described in
.BR autofs (5).
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp
.RS +.2i
.ta 1.0i
.nf
/home	/etc/auto.home
/misc	/etc/auto.misc
/mnt	yp:mnt.map
.fi
.RE
.sp
This will generate three mountpoints 
.IR /home ,
.IR /misc ,
and
.IR /mnt .
All accesses to
.I /home
will lead to the consultation of the map in
.IR /etc/auto.home ,
all accesses to
.I /misc
will consult the map in
.IR /etc/auto.misc ,
and all accesses to
.I /mnt
will consult the NIS map
.IR mnt.map .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR automount (8),
.BR autofs (5),
.BR autofs (8).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Christoph Lameter <chris@waterf.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system.  Edited by <hpa@transmeta.com>.
